that's like um so good morning my name
is David and I don't know some of you
are a lot of you actually um so I
thought it'd be a good idea if by way of
introduction just know that my research
focus is on the history and development
of spherical media tools and
environments have been doing this for
longer that I'd like to think and I
really
explore the potential for cultivating
new ways of seeing the world
by expanding our perceptual capabilities
but like Aaron's talk yesterday this is
not going to be a talk about virtual
reality
this morning I'm going to look beyond
the kind of current bubble of immersive
media to examine the broader
implications of spherical metaphors and
shaping different perceptions of the
world not unlike some of the things that
fred was just talking about and
ironically i'm going to try to do this
on this big rectangle
which really it's not really is to doing
so i want to start by telling a story
kind of a meta-narrative so for
countless generations
cultures around the world have turned to
this this apparent dome of the sky to
make sense the world it's been widely
perceived as a spherical container in
large part due to the spherical
perspective of human vision and the
apparent rotations of the sky that we
can see with time-lapse photography
pivot around this kind of central point
the central axis of the pole star and
the so-called access Monday was widely
interpreted as a portal to the heavens
and cultures all over the world our
ancestors very survival depended on
their ability to correlate these
celestial and terrestrial events to
anticipate the different cycles of life
to synchronize with them the structures
the flows and they employed lots of
different mediation techniques to
symbolize lunar and celestial movements
often kind of intimately connected to
fertility cycles wayfinding
hunting-gathering time keeping all these
different
necessary thanks for human existence
these recurring spherical tropes can be
found embodied within the design of
dwellings domiciles across time and
they're integrated with narratives and
rituals artifacts that really provided a
kind of critical orientation to the
cosmic dynamics that were experienced as
being animated and alive particularly
within these animistic cultures and this
perceived vault of the sky continued to
be emulated within the most sacred
environments have lots of civilizations
often aligned to the stars and today the
symbolism of the spherical macrocosm
centered on the access monday is
continually embodied within many
significant religious structures here we
see within cathedrals stupas mosques etc
but around 2,500 years ago a radical new
vision appeared in ancient Greece Plato
also envisioned the universe like
animistic cultures is kind of a living
psirico cosmos rotating around a central
axis but in his account of creation of
the world in the Timaeus he described
God as a rational architect at Demiurge
whose mind and intention the human
intellect could really imagine and
understand and comprehend and he
imagined viewing the world from the
outside from the outside of the sphere
as opposed to being on the inside of the
living cosmos those from this
transcendent perspective of the Gods I
view as we've come to know it that this
totalizing notion of cosmos and universe
first appeared a student Aristotle then
extended this abstraction further
proposing that the pursuit of
theoretical knowledge was really
one of the highest callings of
philosophers and is but I physics he
really talked about this being governed
by a kind of dualistic non contradictory
logic that he'd laid out in some some
great detail that is still with us today
and he described Aristotle described the
universe a series of perfect crystalline
spheres rotated by the hand of an
unmoved mover as he called it around a
static earth this view was later
famously developed by Ptolemy and in his
physics Aristotle envision these fears
separating the feminine Earth from the
masculine heavens insisting that mother
earth was lowly and corruptible while
father heaven was not surprisingly
divine eternal and immutable
and this vision of a masculine spherical
cosmos was later appropriated by the
medieval Catholic Church Protestant
churches as well replacing the unmoved
mover with the Christian God and they
retained the idea that even though earth
was at the center of the universe it was
actually the worst place to be we often
confuse anthracis ism with geocentrism
but this was actually kind of a some
have called a Diablo centric universe
hell was at the center in the 14th
century meister eckhart reintroduced
this kind of ancient hermetic metaphor
of God as an infinite sphere whose
Center was everywhere and circumference
was nowhere and then a century later
Nicholas of Cuza
classic monk transferred this to an
evocative metaphor for the physical
universe itself preparing really an
understanding a metaphorical
understanding of a new way of seeing the
cosmos and this kind of paradoxical
notion of the sinner being everywhere
and the circumference being nowhere it's
laid the conceptual foundations for
nicolaus copernicus to imagine a moving
earth like Plato he believed the human
intellect could know the mind of God and
in his 1543 book on the revolutions of
the heavenly spheres Copernicus proposed
that the central fire of the Sun was the
center of the cosmos around which of
course the earth rotated and this has
been discussed and analyzed at nauseam
generally under the rubric of the
Copernican revolution and Thomas Kuhn
famously coined the now much abused term
paradigm shift to describe the
subsequent impact of Copernicus
sun-centered universe on the European
imagination
this heliocentric vision profoundly
challenged the intuitive perception that
the sky rotated around a static earth it
not only cast doubt on the basic tenets
of Aristotle's physics but also on the
very reliability of our senses
and the idea of heaven is a physical
place
excuse me
beyond the stars gradually dissolved
this is a one of the later cosmography
you can see in Copernicus's
illustrations that they were contained
within the outer rings the entire cosmos
and then later some other cosmography
first were coming along and imagining
stars outside of that that outer sphere
of the heavens and began to appear that
the entire universe was made of the same
corruptible elements as Earth the
so-called Copernican or mediocrity
principal took hold with the
philosophical assumption that there's
nothing special or unique about
humanity's home planet so it was already
seen as kind of the worst place to be
but then things got really existentially
angst-ridden because it seemed like it
was just the same everywhere there was
no heaven to go to instead of sort of
dethroning earth it sort of death row in
heaven and
over time new observational instruments
dramatically extended the range of human
perception resulting in kind of an
explosion of specialized knowledge and
techniques it also quicken the
dissolution of the heavenly spheres in
the European imagination in place of
these fears space and time were
gradually quantified as mathematical
extract abstractions existing
independently of the lived environment
the lived experience of the world and
understandable solely through the human
intellect and the predictive power of
these mathematical equations and the
rhetorical power of these mechanical
devices reinforce the idea of a
predictable clockwork universe that was
no longer alive but could be completely
comprehended by the rational human mind
and as Peter slaughtered I called it the
immune system of the spheres disappeared
the dualistic distinction between heaven
and earth was replaced by the
strengthening divisions between mind and
matter subject and object and most
importantly today Humanity in nature
new cartographic techniques also
homogenized live places into a
globalized world we could kind of
imagine everywhere as just being nowhere
and this gradual conquest of the world
as a picture was what Martin Heidegger
really referred to as the fundamental
event of the modern age and media
Isis played a pretty critical role in
how it was in training our thought as
well because the linear projections of
devices like the camera obscura and the
magic lantern provided new models for
understanding perception and cognition
they were adopted as explanatory
metaphors to describe how the external
physical world enters in through the
windows of the senses into the dark room
of the skull and as natural philosophy
gradually morphed into modern science
increasingly it seemed that the best way
to understand nature was by reducing it
to its component parts
reductionism
these abstractions that
externalities of
science were really adopted by by global
economic systems as well over time which
gradually reduced the earth to these
kind of physical resources and
accelerated a kind of disenchantment
with the seemingly mediocre planet and
dreams of escaping to other more perfect
worlds became a recurring trope within
the narrative of modern progress and in
the 19th century the quest for this
disembodied god's eye view really became
central to the belief that science could
ultimately make sense of the entire
machine and absolutely divorce objective
facts from subjective experience and
values
so that's kind of the humanities portion
of today's class but I find it's
important to actually review this kind
of stuff because like it's a lot of its
addressed you know and has been
addressed for longer than we've been
alive within within humanities Science
and Technology studies but a lot of we
are all living in radically different
worlds there's no telling how much of us
have actually encountered some of that I
know I didn't and so I was very
interested in the role that the sphere
played in shaping the way that we think
about the world and so kind of jump
forward a little bit by the 20th century
the sphere had returned that that the
complexity of this quest became apparent
when Zeiss engineers started trying to
emulate the night sky and started to
project on the celestial screen of the
first planetarium the the sort of
inseparability of subjectivity and
objectivity became increasingly up
parent and by the way you can see up
here the Zeiss engineers i think it was
in 1923 actually developed the first
what we now call geodesic dome that book
mr. fuller later got credit for it
seemed he developed it autonomously but
the engineers developed as kind of the
strongest structure for domes
but their system this Ptolemaic Earth's
interview of the moving sky became the
hit with audiences immersing them within
the archetypal architecture of the
firmament and though they attempted this
kind of mundane looking kaepernick and
planetarium to provide a more objective
view of looking at the solar system from
the outside it couldn't compete with the
effective visual immersion of the
Ptolemaic counterpart
in throughout the 1930s ice installed
planetariums across the world
particularly in the United States and
funders hoped that they would induce a
sense of cosmic unity again kind of back
to the the surround idea amongst their
audiences at the dedication of the
Hayden Planetarium in New York City one
speaker addressed the hope that visitors
might better comprehend what he called
the common fate of the human race in one
sphere achill boat out upon the
boundless ethereal see
with the introduction of film projection
into domes the combination of this
Ptolemaic and Copernican views finally
seemed possible and at the 1939 World's
Fair the Hayden Planetarium teamed up
with the long jeans watch company and a
guy named Fred Wahl or who later
developed cinerama to develop what they
call the cinema of basin or the theater
of space and time
visitors were taken on this kind of
15-minute simulated cosmic voyage with
edge blended film projectors flying
beyond the skyline of New York passed
rivers on Mars and out towards the
spiral arms of the Milky Way galaxy
which had had have recently been
understood as not the containment of the
entire cosmos and at the outbreak of
World War two however the planetarium
production stopped and the Zeiss optical
factories were repurposed for weaponry
for the Third Reich the technology of
the theater of space and time was also
transformed into a gunnery trainer for
British and American pilots but after
the Third Reich's demise the US
government imported german scientists
into the u.s.
and one of these famously was Verner von
Braun who who became chief architect of
the u.s. space program
after the war the American planetariums
began to expand their programming
focusing on dramatic entertaining
concepts as well as ideals of space
travel and in the early 1950s the
American Museum at the Hayden
Planetarium again at the American piece
of Natural History hosted a series of
lectures on all the ways the world might
be destroyed by astronomical phenomena
which included vivid descriptions of
catastrophes via asteroids meteorites
global flooding global drought and
they also worked with Verner von braun
to organize this symposia to further
establish a cosmology centered around
colonizing outer space
von Braun's ideas were subsequently
promoted within popular media throughout
the 50s to turn them into reality and
that was further amplified by von
Braun's collaboration with Walt Disney
who produced a series of television
shows to convince Americans of the
feasibility and the need to colonize
space as the next frontier
and
here's one of my favorite quotes from
that managed space series are one of my
favorite Clips
ladies and gentlemen here is your host
Walt Disney Thank You Garko
in this exciting age when everyone seems
to be talking about the future
possibilities of space travel there's
much speculation on what we will
discover when we visit other worlds will
we find planets with only a low farm a
vegetable life or will there be
mechanical robots controlled by super
intelligent beings
one of the most fascinating fields of
modern science deals with the
possibility of life on other planets
this is our story and
indeed it became our story as the Space
Age took root in the 20th century
mechanistic science was augmented by
spectacular tales of science fiction
ancient visions of transcending to the
heavens were replaced by dreams of
escaping to other actual worlds the
nineteen sixty two World's Fair I know
not human was there I think some other
folks were the United States government
and Boeing aerospace hired cinerama Fred
Waller again to create the ultimate
cosmic journey to garner the support of
the American public for funding the
space race the result was journey to the
stars a ten-minute simulated exploration
of galaxies and planets attended by over
seven million visitors over the course
of the fair two years later in New York
cinerama once again replicated this
cosmic Voyager with to the moon and
beyond which was the star attraction at
the 1964 new york world's fair
but while these efforts kind of
continued with in the 20th century for
visualizing in many ways kind of
scientific ideas we find a parallel
history of spherical immersion
explicitly designed to explore more the
more metaphysical inner space and this
kind of flagship of this project was the
rosicrucian planetarium here in San Jose
which was the first American design
planetarium that opened in 1939 called
the theater of the sky it was claimed
that visitors could explore the
mysteries of ancient mythologies
connecting the macrocosm to the
microcosm and
then later at the morrison planetarium
in Golden Gate Park pioneering
countercultural explorations of
interspace were taking up taken up in
the 1950s with what we're called the
vortex performances sound artist Henry
Jacobs and filmmaker children Belson you
sound and light to develop a jacobs
called a new form of theater based on
the combination of electronics optics
and architecture setting the stage for
later psychedelic light
by the mid-1960s filmmaker Stan Van Der
Beek who was inspired by his time as a
student with Buckminster Fuller at Black
Mountain College was developing his
movie drum in upstate New York he
referred to it as a rudimentary
prototype for an international
audio-visual research center designed to
develop a new nonverbal international
picture language sound familiar in 1969
even Morton heilig who's widely regarded
this kind of the grandfather of virtual
reality patented the concept of a
multi-sensory spherical experience
theater and a year later immersion was
once again pushed to kind of it's
reflexive extreme by the quite famous
experiments in arts and technologies
world expo pavilion in japan sponsored
by pepsi engineer billy cluver described
this is the theater of the future a
living responsive environment in a total
instrument to be played by the
participants in kind of ecstatic states
of cybernetic bliss and at the turn of
the century of this century the quest
for transcendence returned in kind of
higher and more technological forms than
ever imagined has taken up by a new
generation of immersive cosmic voyagers
led by the flagship this time of the
Hayden Planetarium and once again it
built on this recurring trope of flights
through the heavens so that these
digital planetariums could continue to
cultivate public interest in space
exploration by purporting to provide
scientifically accurate tours to the
cosmos when I went to the Hayden
archives and I was looking for the
information about the 1939 world's fair
nobody that had worked on this project
knew about the project exactly sixty
years earlier that had almost an
identical flight path so there was
something quite interesting about the
ways in which this was evoking a
particular imagination and
within you know the single generation of
all of this happening we actually did
achieve escape velocity I mean we
traveled other planets which the moon
but when our probes arrived on Mars
there were no intelligent robots to be
found other than our own and not only
were there no as Disney called them low
forms of vegetable life which you kind
of set as the lowest common denominator
there was no life at all and if you've
been following the Maven mission lately
you know the findings of actual
conditions for life Mars are getting
more and more harsh and
really thanks to the Space Age thanks to
industrialization we've actually
discovered that we can't take the
conditions for life for granted and as
we've been dreaming of life on other
worlds and escaping from this one we've
been transforming many parts of our own
planet into alien landscapes
we don't have to really go that far to
see what inhospitable environments look
like just go to West Virginia close to
where I'm from where ancient mountains
are being decimated by the coal industry
or to Alberta in Canada where wild
boreal forests are being raised to
access the tar sands
in the past decade resilient scientists
have really envisioned a new kind of
sphere to quantify many of the critical
thresholds of planetary life support
systems not just climate change but also
biodiversity loss ocean acidification
fresh water use and many many other
interconnected issues and their words
were tipping towards the unknown engaged
in a high-stakes game of unwittingly
crossing planetary boundaries that
define a safe operating space for
humanity and
as has been noted we're discovering that
the economy is a wholly owned subsidiary
of the planetary biosphere not the other
way around
according to the global footprint
Network we've been going into ecological
debt every year for the past four
decades exceeding the capacity of
Earth's ability to regenerate the
resources were consuming and in an
ironically anthropocentric gesture the
term Anthropocene the age of humans has
been proposed to describe the current
geologic epoch
I'm curious how many of you have heard
this term
I'm impressed generally I've mentioned
this before in talks and it's
extraordinary like how much press this
has gotten but it still isn't a widely
understood concept so these epochs are
generally defined by the ability to see
clear boundaries between layers of rocks
and
the
idea of the Anthropocene is that steam
engines the Industrial Revolution
nuclear explosions thermoelectric power
highways and and increasingly what we
heard of yesterday is the stack the
planetary computational skill systems
are leaving an indelible chemical
impression on the geology of our planet
the notion of the Anthropocene captures
the spirit of this ambivalent era when
increased access to modern conveniences
have been accompanied by widespread
ecological degradation and paradoxically
the notion of the Anthropocene also
effectively dissolves the dualistic
distinction between humans and nature
that was really at a cornerstone of
modern science they call them
social-ecological systems
so some of you even pointed out that
this is not really so much a function of
humanity as it is a function of kind of
hyper neoliberal capitalism proposing
that it might be more effectively and
more more accurately called the capitulo
scene and this ability to modify
ecosystems at a planetary scale evidence
is a profound conundrum underlying how
we direct the power of human ingenuity
the radical fragmentation of knowledge
has really made it very difficult to
comprehend or make sense of any kind of
big picture because they're now over
8,000 academic disciplines 50,000
specialized journals and over a million
articles published every year in this
visualization of academic references
from UCSD kind of shows how rarely
disciplines draw on knowledge from other
fields within their publications
so
buck mr. fuller he was going to be
dropped out of this talk because trying
to talk about him within the span of 30
minutes is pretty impossible but he
anticipated many of the consequences of
this excessive reductionism abstraction
and specialization and in no uncertain
yet often maddeningly verbose terms he
saw the industrial technologies the
Space Age as critical for extending the
senses to perceive what he called the
ninety-nine point nine percent of
phenomena occurring beyond the visible
the audible the smella Bolin the
touchable realms and as an antidote he
developed a more integrative approach
that he called comprehensive
anticipatory designed science describing
its practitioners primarily himself as
an emerging synthesis of artists
inventor mechanic objective economist
and evolutionary strategist and he
addressed this in the introduction to G
youngbloodz expanded cinema he contended
that the media arts and technology media
technologies would play a critical role
in what he called the design science
revolution he insisted that Network
technologically assisted experiential
learning environments were key to
essential reorientation to our cosmic
and planetary home
he also insisted that we live on a
spaceship this was probably one of the
things that he was most known for and he
was really encouraging us to in his kind
of famous framing take our
responsibilities for being astronauts
aboard Spaceship Earth and today the
fruits of this industrial age in the
Space Age are really indeed providing
more dynamic views so the idea of the
whole earth is this image that
transformed where is credited with
transforming consciousness in the 1960s
it's kind of radically changing because
it's not just kind of a static 2d image
but we have webs now of Earth observing
and communication satellites that are
helping us to understand our home in new
ways the providing profound insights
into the impacts of human civilization
across all these different types of
scales spatial spectral temporal as well
as giving us the opportunity to
visualize all kinds of information these
eyes and the skies are really allowing
us to directly experience as fuller
anticipated
invisible phenomena utilizing the data
and the capacity for computing power and
as a consequence we keep discovering
previously invisible interactions that
conspire to support life here not the
least of which is the Earth's magnetic
field which we now understand is a
function of the moon's gravity I think
it's something like 3.7 terawatts
constantly that we're getting just from
gravity gravity and spin that's
generating this effective in a force
field protecting our planet from all of
these solar winds that are constantly
bombarding us without this we wouldn't
have the atmosphere we wouldn't have the
oceans
by visualizing these previously
invisible patterns and relationships we
can start to gain a deeper appreciation
of what fuller would call the
synergistic conditions for life the kind
of emergent properties that are
unpredicted by the sum of the parts for
instance satellite
data of the surface flows from NASA as
well as some wind currents show how
fresh water moves and vortices between
the oceans in the atmosphere and
these currents are also distributing
solar energy to regulate the Earth's
climate the planetary temperatures are
equalized by the cold air and surface
water is moving towards the equator
while warm warm air and water moves
towards the poles of course this is kind
of the concern with Greenland that if
Greenland goes starts to cool down this
this conveyor belt that essentially
Europe freezes over
we also now know that Earth is the only
planet in the habitable zone of our own
solar system that means that we have the
necessary temperatures to support
abundant liquid water on its surface but
everybody's familiar with this solar
system model right like everybody
recognized this as the solar system it's
sorry I'd really don't mean to be
condescending but my mind gets blown
constantly at how much I don't know like
how ignorant I am by trying to engage
this material because these are all like
there's so many things that are not part
of the current educational system that
that is extraordinary so we're all being
taught this incredibly outdated model of
the solar system fuller attempted to
actually relate this in his book
synergetics where he was arguing the Sun
actually moves like why in all of these
models do we never see the Sun moving so
we now really understand that the Sun is
orbiting around the galactic core of the
Milky Way at about half a million miles
an hour with us in tow and our planet
really does start to resemble a kind of
regenerative living spaceship I mean
it's not even so metaphorical it's just
a really neat science fiction trope and
increasingly media arts and technology
can play a critical role in accelerating
our attunement to these complex
ecological patterns that are both inside
and without
and this potential has really been
driven home most spectacularly by the
cosmic atlas developed by the Hayden
Planetarium it was inspired by charles
and ray eames power of ten curated by
the Hayden and so basically this is I'm
going to zoom out in one minute
something that I usually do in about an
hour but it's going to start increasing
in speed
as we're zooming out and it's as well as
compressing space so that we can begin
to see the dynamics of the solar system
still not taking to account the movement
of the Sun but we're at one hour away
from home we're at one light day we
begin to see the constellations but it's
a 3d map of the stars you start to see
the constellations and their true
relationship to how we observe them we
see the radio sphere in space we begin
to zoom out like in the new york world's
fair outside of our galaxy we start to
see all of these galactic surveys each
containing billions of stars to the
point where 100 million light years
finally we get to this large-scale
structure of galaxies and the places
that we can't actually see that we
failed to map to the point where we
actually pop outside of our own cosmic
horizon the Cosmic Microwave Background
got that
do you notice anything funny
so I
first saw this at Burning Man um we did
a project and we're sitting in a dome we
made and I had this company we're making
these lenses in the guy Carter who
curated this thing was like hey company
you know come help us up and when he got
to this point I was like what the hell
okay this is another one of those things
like am i that ignorant like what's
going on with this and so I spent a
number of years really trying to
understand but what this what this is is
really pushing the transcendent view of
this god's eye this god's eye view this
transcendent dream to its virtual
extreme and we encountered this irony of
really cosmic proportions that within
this new cosmic model which back of the
napkin sketches is about 10 billion
dollars worth of scientific research
earth is at the center surrounded by
this spherical horizon that we are in
what astronomers call our own
observational center of space-time which
makes a lot of sense if you think about
it it's it's an inevitable artifact of
attempting to map and model phenomena
through the technological extensions of
our senses we are situated in this
particular place in this particular time
and is light from phenomena reaches us
it's all non time'll taneous light has a
speed limit so we're seeing things
further and further back in the past the
further out we look and we're also
looking all around us so we're creating
this kind of omnidirectional view or in
laymen's VR terms this is basically a
spherical panorama right
but it's limited by the speed of light
which which really means that this neo
geocentric cosmic model embodies the
medieval paradox of the infinite sphere
that the center is everywhere that
there's a self conscious observer this
just happens to be our Center and the
circumference is nowhere it's really an
illusion of the sphere created by our
efforts to map the earliest light coming
at us post the Big Bang at least of
course according to modern cosmology and
one of the most interesting aspects of
this that I found is that we also have
to really consider earth as our
ecological center that it's it's our
true access Monday that the more we look
out the more we're having to look in the
more we're having to understand all of
these synergistic connections and
relationships that are on this planet as
we've attempted to domesticate the
universe we've discovered the need to
really begin reorienting ourselves to
our cosmic and planetary home
because the concept of the Anthropocene
really does dissolve that human nature
boundary we need to question these
fundamental paradigm attic assumptions
that are still driving in particular not
science so much because science has been
adapting to the complexity and the
emergence and all kinds of things but
the global economic system it's still
based on this idea of scarcity and
linearity that these are the very things
that Fuller was challenging and our
species collective future is really
dependent on our ability to integrate
the technologies that we create into the
regenerative capacity and the living
systems of this planet and I was going
to end there but I thought it was sort
of insightful to when I when I when I
run across this this definition from
fuller again of Technology because it's
it's another one of those tricky terms
and he defines technology as this and
it's complexities of design integrity
the universe is technology the
technology evolved by man is thus far
amateurish compared to the elegance of
non-human ly contrived regeneration man
does not spontaneously recognized
technology other than his own so he
speaks of the rest as something he
ignorant Lee calls nature
and so that idea I think is one of the
most important thought forms of the 21st
century that as we start to look around
and we start to study these these cycles
and the regenerative patterns all around
us we start to understand and mediate
reality across all these different
scales the one of the most important
things if not the most important things
we could be doing as media artists i
think is to help a tune our
consciousness to the nature of what is
required to exist within these scales of
living systems these nested scales that
we need to be adding value to not
degenerating but actively participating
within the regeneration and since
unbeknownst to me Barry actually posted
this to the the front page of this
conference website I thought it'd be
helpful to sort of invite you to
participate in the buckminster fuller
challenge which this is a project we've
been doing for the past nine years at
the buckminster fuller institute that's
designed to meet the goal of what he
called the world game
that he was looking for projects tapping
into these regenerative technologies
that could help design a world that
would work for one hundred percent of
humanity in the shortest possible time
through spontaneous cooperation without
ecological offense but the disadvantage
of anyone and in terms of an intention
it's it's over the years really become
one of my favorite mantras and last year
we received submissions from over a
hundred different countries it's an
incredible community of people and I
would really love to engage anyone here
that's interested in learning more
because what we're really really missing
is mediation and the stories and the
experiments of how it is we begin to
visualize what this looks like because
these are extraordinary systemic
projects but they're so busy doing their
things that they don't have generally
the skills and the chops to actually it
explain the systemic integrative nature
of what they're up to thanks
[Applause]